---
title:  "100가지 기본 투자용어"

categories:
  - Investment 
tags:
  - Investment
---

### 1.	Dovish vs Hawkish

- A dove is an economic policy advisor who promotes monetary policies that usually involve low-interest rates.  Doves tend to support low-interest rates and an expansionary monetary policy because they value indicators like low unemployment over keeping inflation low. 
- Hawkish:  The opposite of a dove is a hawk, which is a policy advisor that favors a tight monetary policy to control inflation.
 
### 2.	Inflation, Deflation, Reflation
- Reflation aims to stop deflation—the general decline in prices for goods and services that occurs when inflation falls below 0%. It is a long-term shift, often characterized by a prolonged reacceleration in economic prosperity that strives to reduce any excess capacity in the labor market.

### 3.	Buy the dip Buy the weakness, Taking profits, Sell the top
- Buy the dip & Buy the weakness
    - When an investor buys an asset after a drop, they are buying at a lower price, hoping to profit if the market rebounds.
    -Buy weakness is a proactive trading strategy where a trader enters into long positions ahead of the anticipated reversal in a security's price. Buy weakness traders will generally either go long a security or buy call options in a preemptive move to capture the entire expected upside.
- Sell the top 
    - Sell an asset when it reaches a top

### 4.	YoY Growth, QoQ Growth, MoM Growth
- YoY Growth
    - Year-on-year growth rates are rates of change expressed over the corresponding period (month or quarter in relation to the frequency of the data) of the previous year.
- QoQ Growth
    - the QOQ measure is used to compare the earnings between quarters.
- MoM Growth
    - Month-over-month (MoM) growth shows the change in the value of a specific metric as a percentage of the previous month's value.
### 5.	Earning Surprise, Earning Shock, Earning In-line
- Earning Surprise
    - An earnings surprise occurs when a company's reported quarterly or annual profits are above or below the analysts' expectations.
- Earning Shock
    - (?) The opposite meaning of earning shock (bad)
- Earning In-line
    - 유지?
### 6.	12m Target Price
- A target price is an estimate of the future price of a stock. 
    - One year target is an estimate of a stock price for a point in time equal to a year from the current date. 

### 7.	Forward P/E multiple, Trailing P/E multiple
- The forward P/E uses projected future earnings to calculate the price-to-earnings ratio. The trailing P/E, which is the standard form of a price-to-earnings ratio, is calculated using recent past earnings

### 8.	P/B multiple, P/S multiple, EV/EBITDA multiple
- The Price-to-Book ratio, or P/B ratio, measures the relationship of a company's market capitalization to its book value on a per-share basis.
- The P/S ratio, also known as a sales multiple or revenue multiple, is a key analysis and valuation tool for investors and analysts. The ratio shows **how much investors are willing to pay per dollar of sales.**
    - Price-to-sales (P/S) ratios between one and two are generally considered good, while a P/S ratio of less than one is considered excellent.
-  EV/EBITDA  is a ratio used to determine the value of a company. It is computed by dividing enterprise value by EBITDA
    - EBITDA : Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization

### 9.	Historial High, Historial Low
### 10.	Tapering, QE
- Tapering refers to the Federal Reserve policy of unwinding the massive purchases of Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities
- Quantitative easing (QE) is a form of unconventional monetary policy in which a central bank purchases longer-term securities from the open market in order to increase the money supply and encourage lending and investment.

### 11.	Fiscal Polity, Monetary Policy
- Fiscal policy refers to the government's decisions about taxation and spending.
- Monetary policy refers to central bank activities

### 12.	Supply Chain 
- A supply chain is a network between a company and its suppliers to produce and distribute a specific product to the final buyer.
### 13.	Vertical Integration, Horizontal Integration
### 14.	Value Stock, Growth Stock, Dividend Aristocrat, Bluechip Stock 
- A value stock refers to shares of a company that appears to trade at a lower price relative to its fundamentals, such as dividends, earnings, or sales,
- A growth stock is any share in a company that is anticipated to grow at a rate significantly above the average growth for the market. 
- A Dividend Aristocrat is a company in the S&P 500 index that has paid and increased its base dividend every year for at least 25 consecutive 
- Blue-chip stocks are seen as relatively safer investments, with a proven

### 15.	Payout
- A payout is a sum of money, especially a large one, that is paid to someone, for example by an insurance company or as a prize.
### 16.	Stock Repurchase, Stock Cancellation
- Because a share repurchase reduces the number of shares outstanding, it increases earnings per share (EPS). A higher EPS elevates the market value of the remaining shares. After repurchase, the shares are canceled or held as treasury shares, so they are no longer held publicly and are not outstanding.
- Cancellation of shares is the process by which a company cancels either already issued shares or the unissued ones
### 17.	Upside Potential
- The upside is the potential for an investment to increase in value,
### 18.	Consensus EPS, Consensus Revenue
- a forecast of a public company's projected earnings based on the combined estimates of all equity analysts that cover the stock. Generally, analysts predict a company's earnings per share (EPS) and revenue numbers for the quarter, fiscal year (FY), and future FYs.
### 19.	Earning Season
- The period of time during which a large number of publicly traded companies release their quarterly earning reports.
### 20.	11 Sectors of S&P500 (XLB, XLC, XLE, XLF, XLP, XLI, XLY, XLK, XLRE, XLY, XLU)
- XLB: Basic Materials 소재 (1위 : Linde plc)

- XLC: Communication Service 통신 (1위 : Facebook)

- XLY: Consumer Cyclical 자유소비재 (1위 : Amazon)

- XLP: Consumer Defensive 필수소비재 (1위 : Procter & Gamble Company)

- XLE: Energy 에너지 (1위 : Exxon Mobile Corporation)

- XLF: Financial 금융 (1위 : Berkshire Hathaway)

- XLV: Healthcare 헬스케어 (1위 : Johnson & Johnson)

- XLI: Industrials 산업재 (1위 : Union Pacific Corporation)

- XLRE: Real Estate 부동산 (1위 : American Tower Corporation)

- LK: Technology 테크 (1위 : Apple)

- XLU: Utilities 유틸리티 (1위 : NextEra Energy)

### 21.	Strong Buy, Buy, Conviction, Overweight, Outperform, Upgrade, Downgrade, Hold, Marketperform, Underperform, Sell, Strong Sell
- Strong Buy: a recommendation given by analysts for a stock that is expected to dramatically outperform the average market return 
### 22.	Fear & Greed Index
- excessive fear can result in stocks trading well below their intrinsic values while, at the same time, unbridled greed can result in stocks being bid up far above what they should be worth.
### 23.	Yield Curve Steepening, Flattening
- A steepening curve typically indicates stronger economic activity and rising inflation expectations, and thus, higher interest rates. When the yield curve is steep, banks are able to borrow money at lower interest rates and lend at higher interest rates.
-  the curve typically flattens as expectations of an interest rate increase tend to push short-term yields higher more than those on the long end. A flattening yield curve can indicate that expectations for future inflation are falling. 

### 24.	Disruptive Innovation
- 와해성 혁신은 업계를 완전히 재편성하고 시장 대부분을 점유하게 될 신제품이나 서비스를 말한다. 
### 25.	ESG
- 환경, 사회, 기업 지배구조(Environmental, social and corporate governance, ESG)는 기업이나 비즈니스에 대한 투자의 지속 가능성과 사회에 미치는 영향을 측정하는 세 가지 핵심 요소이다.
### 26.	Impact Investment
- 임팩트 투자는 재무 수익과 함께 예측 가능한 사회 또는 환경문제들을 해결하는 것을 목적으로 하는 기업, 단체, 그리고 펀드들에 대한 투자이다
-  For example, some impact investors seek to support renewable energy, electric cars, microfinance, sustainable agriculture, or other causes which they believe to be worthwhile.
27.	Momentum
- momentum refers to the inertia of a price trend to continue either rising or falling for a particular length of time, usually taking into account both price and volume information.
28.	Performance
29.	Beta
30.	R-Squared
- 결정계수는 추정한 선형 **모형이** 주어진 자료에 적합한 정도를 재는 척도이다
31.	Correlation Coefficient
- 통계학에서, 피어슨 상관 계수란 두 변수 X 와 Y 간의 선형 **상관 관계**를 계량화한 수치다
32.	10 Year US Treasury
- a debt obligation issued by the United States government with a maturity of 10 years upon initial issuance. 
33.	WTI
- West Texas Intermediate (WTI) is a light, sweet crude oil that serves as one of the main global oil benchmarks. It is sourced primarily from inland Texas and is one of the highest quality oils in the world, which is easy to refine. WTI is the underlying commodity for the NYMEX's oil futures contract.
34.	All-time High, All-time Low
-  A record achievement (or failure), never before surpassed. 
35.	50 Day Moving Average, 200 Day Moving Average, Golden Cross, Dead Cross
- A golden cross indicates a long-term bull market going forward, while a death cross signals a long-term bear market.
36.	Foundry vs Fabless
37.	Mega-cap, Large-cap, Mid-cap, Small-cap, Micro-cap Stocks
38.	Reflation Trade
39.	Sector Rotation
40.	Undervalued vs Overvalued
41.	Top-line Growth vs Bottom-line Growth
42.	Pricing Power, Purchasing Power
43.	Contrarian Investing
44.	Dogs of the Dow
45.	Dividend Yield, Earning Yield, Free Cash Flow Yield
46.	ROE, ROA, ROIC
47.	GPM, OPM, NPM
48.	Laggards vs Leaders
49.	Cyclical vs Secular
50.	Defensive, Resilient
51.	FFO in REITs
52.	FAANG, MAGA
53.	FOMO, TINA
54.	Pullback, Correction, Bear Market
55.	Asset Allocation, Sector Allocation, Stock-Picking
56.	Generating Alpha, Beta
57.	Market Beta, Stock Beta
58.	NTM, TTM, FY0, FY1
59.	Free Cash Flow
60.	GARP
61.	PEG Ratio
62.	Quality Stock
63.	52 Week High / Low
64.	YTD
65.	Low Volatility Stocks
66.	Momentum Stocks
67.	FTSE, Emerging Market, Developed Market
68.	Activist Investment
69.	Stock / Rights Offering
70.	Stock Option, Special Dividend, Stock Dividend, # of Shares Outstanding, # of Shares Issued
71.	BoD
72.	Voting Rights
73.	Capital Structure
74.	D/E Ratio
75.	Turnover Ratio
76.	Pre-Market, Post-Market
77.	US dollar Appreciation / Depreciation
78.	DJIA Index, S&P500 Index, NASDAQ Index, Russell2000 Index
79.	Investor Relations (IR)
80.	10-K, 10-Q
81.	Merger, Acquisition, SPAC, Spin-Off, IPO, Direct Offering, Public Offering, Tender Offer
82.	Tailwind, Headwind
83.	Seasonality
84.	Labor Shortage, Unemployment Rate, Full Employment
85.	Pent-up Demand
86.	Gig Economy, Subscription Economy, Decentralization
87.	Fintech
88.	Digitization, Cyber-security, Work-from-Home, Remote Work, Back to Normal, New Normal
89.	Narrative Economy
90.	Investment Horizon
91.	Rally, Dead Cat Bounce, Double-Top, Double-Bottom
92.	All Cylinder
93.	Dry Powder
94.	Backlog
95.	Earning Preview (Consensus), Announcement (Actual), Earnings Review, Analyst’s Target Price Change Call
96.	CPI, PPI, CPE, PPE
97.	Bullish Call vs Bearish Call
98.	Epicenter Stocks
99.	Black Swan Event
100.	Passive Investing vs Active Investing
